In JavaScript, there are several types of functions that you can use based on your specific needs and coding requirements. 

- [[#Function Expressions|Function Expressions]]
- [[#Types of Functions|Types of Functions]]
	- [[#Types of Functions#Anonymous Functions|Anonymous Functions]]
- [[#Named Functions|Named Functions]]
- [[#Arrow Functions|Arrow Functions]]
- [[#Generator Functions|Generator Functions]]
- [[#Recursive Functions|Recursive Functions]]
- [[#IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)|IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)]]
- [[#Higher-Order Functions|Higher-Order Functions]]
- [[#Constructor Functions|Constructor Functions]]
- [[#Method functions|Method functions]]
- [[#Callback Functions|Callback Functions]]
- [[#Async Functions|Async Functions]]
- [[#Curried Functions|Curried Functions]]
### Function Declarations

The most common way to define a function is using a function declaration, which consists of the `function` keyword followed by the function name and a block of code.

```javascript
function add (a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
```

### Function Expressions 

A function expression is defined by assigning a function to a variable. It can be anonymous or named.

```javascript
// Anonymous function expression
const multiply = function(a, b) {
  return a * b;
};

// Named function expression
const divide = function divide(a, b) {
  return a / b;
};
```

### Types of Functions
#### Anonymous Functions

An [[05 Anonymous Functions|anonymous function]] is a function without a name. These are often used as inline functions or as arguments to other functions.

```javascript
const add = function (a, b) {
  return a + b;
};
```
### Named Functions

Named functions have a name identifier, making them more readable and aiding in stack traces for debugging.

```javascript
function multiply(x, y) {
  return x * y;
}
```
### Arrow Functions

[[06. Arrow Functions|Arrow functions]] provide a more concise syntax and inherit the `this` value from the surrounding code.

```javascript
const square = (num) => num * num;
```
### Generator Functions

[[07. Generator Functions|Generator functions]] allow you to pause and resume the execution of a function, yielding multiple values over time.

```javascript
function* generateSequence() {
  yield 1;
  yield 2;
  yield 3;
}

const sequence = generateSequence();
console.log(sequence.next().value); // Output: 1
console.log(sequence.next().value); // Output: 2
```

### Recursive Functions

A recursive function is a function that calls itself, enabling the solution of complex problems by breaking them down into simpler sub-problems.

```javascript
function factorial(n) {
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  } else {
    return n * factorial(n - 1);
  }
}
```
### IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)

An [[06. IIFE (Immediately Invoked Function Expression)|IIFE]] is a function that is executed immediately after it is created, often used to create a private scope.

```javascript
(function () {
  // Code executed immediately
})();
```
### Higher-Order Functions

[[07 Higher-Order Functions|Higher-order functions]] take one or more functions as arguments or return a function as a result. They enable functional programming paradigms.

```javascript
const multiplyBy = (factor) => (number) => number * factor;
const double = multiplyBy(2);
console.log(double(5)); // Output: 10
```
### Constructor Functions

[[08. Constructor Functions|Constructor functions]] are used to create and initialize objects with the `new` keyword. They serve as blueprints for creating objects.

```javascript
function Person(name, age) {
  this.name = name;
  this.age = age;
}

const john = new Person("John", 30);
```
### Method functions

A [[09. Method Functions|method]] is a function that is a property of an object. It can be invoked using the object's context.
```javascript
const car = {
  brand: "Toyota",
  startEngine: function() {
    console.log("Engine started!");
  }
};

car.startEngine(); // Output: Engine started!
```
### Callback Functions

[[10. Callback Functions|Callback functions]] are functions passed as arguments to other functions. They are executed later, after the completion of a particular operation.

```javascript
function fetchData(callback) {
  // Simulating asynchronous data fetching
  setTimeout(() => {
    const data = "Fetched data";
    callback(data);
  }, 1000);
}

fetchData((result) => {
  console.log(result); // Output: Fetched data
});
```
### Async Functions

[[11.Asynchronous Functions|Async functions]] make working with asynchronous code more readable. They always return a promise.

```javascript
async function fetchData() {
  // Simulating asynchronous data fetching
  return new Promise((resolve) => {
    setTimeout(() => {
      const data = "Fetched data";
      resolve(data);
    }, 1000);
  });
}

fetchData().then((result) => {
  console.log(result); // Output: Fetched data
});
```

### Curried Functions

[[13. Currying and Curried Functions|Curried functions]] are functions that return a series of functions, each taking a single argument. They enable partial application of arguments.

```javascript
const curryAdd = (a) => (b) => a + b;

const add5 = curryAdd(5);
console.log(add5(3)); // Output: 8
```

Above are the different types in which functions are used in JavaScript. We can choose the appropriate type based in the requirement of the program.