An **Immediately Invoked Function Expression (IIFE)** is a powerful JavaScript construct that executes a function immediately after its definition. 

- [[#Declarations and benefits|Declarations and benefits]]
- [[#Key Points|Key Points]]
- [[#Conclusion|Conclusion]]
#### Declarations and benefits

```javascript
(function () {
  // Code executed immediately
})();


(function () {
  // IIFE code goes here
  var message = "Hello, IIFE!";
  console.log(message);
})();

// Output: Hello, IIFE!
```

1. **Encapsulation:**
   - IIFEs encapsulate code within a function scope, preventing variable and function name clashes with the global scope.

2. **Modularity:**
   - Enable the creation of self-contained modules, promoting modular code organization and reducing dependencies.

3. **Avoiding Global Namespace Pollution:**
   - Keep variables and functions private within their scope, minimizing the risk of naming conflicts with other code.
### Key Points

- **Execution on Declaration:**
  - IIFEs are executed immediately after their definition, creating an isolated execution context.

- **Syntax:**
  - Defined and invoked using the parentheses operator, `(function(){ /* code */ })()`.

- **Creating New Scope:**
  - IIFEs establish a new function scope, preventing pollution of the global namespace.

- **Common Use Cases:**
  - Often used for encapsulating code, creating modules, and avoiding variable clashes.

- **Applications:**
  - Widely employed in JavaScript libraries, frameworks, and modular code patterns.

### Conclusion

- By leveraging IIFEs, developers can write more modular and maintainable code. 
- IIFEs promote code isolation, prevent global scope pollution, and contribute to a cleaner and more organized codebase. 
- This pattern is especially valuable in scenarios where modularization and encapsulation are essential, such as in the development of libraries, frameworks, and modular JavaScript applications.