- [[#Basic Operators|Basic Operators]]
	- [[#Basic Operators#Arithmetic Operators|Arithmetic Operators]]
	- [[#Basic Operators#Assignment Operators|Assignment Operators]]
	- [[#Basic Operators#Comparison Operators|Comparison Operators]]
	- [[#Basic Operators#Logical Operators|Logical Operators]]
	- [[#Basic Operators#Bitwise Operators|Bitwise Operators]]
- [[#Advanced Operators|Advanced Operators]]
	- [[#Advanced Operators#Destructuring Assignment|Destructuring Assignment]]
	- [[#Advanced Operators#Conditional Operator (Ternary Operator)|Conditional Operator (Ternary Operator)]]
	- [[#Advanced Operators#Spread Operator|Spread Operator]]
	- [[#Advanced Operators#Nullish Coalescing Operator:|Nullish Coalescing Operator:]]
	- [[#Advanced Operators#Optional Chaining Operator:|Optional Chaining Operator:]]
- [[#Operator Precedence|Operator Precedence]]
## Basic Operators

### Arithmetic Operators
- `+` : addition
- `-` : subtraction
- `*` : multiplication
- `/` : division
- `%` : modulus
- `**` : exponentiation (ES2016)

```javascript
let x = 5, y = 3;
console.log(x + y); // 8
console.log(x - y); // 2
console.log(x * y); // 15
console.log(x / y); // 1.6666666666666667
console.log(x % y); // 2
console.log(x ** y); // 125
```

### Assignment Operators
- `=` : assigns a value
- `+=` : adds and assigns a value
- `-=` : subtracts and assigns a value
- `*=` : multiplies and assigns a value
- `/=` : divides and assigns a value
- `%=` : finds modulus and assigns a value
- `**=` : exponentiates and assigns a value (ES2016)

```javascript
let x = 5, y = 3;
x += y; // same as x = x + y;
console.log(x); // 8
```

### Comparison Operators
- `==` : equal to
- `===` : equal value and equal type
- `!=` : not equal to
- `!==` : not equal value or not equal type
- `<` : less than
- `>` : greater than
- `<=` : less than or equal to
- `>=` : greater than or equal to

```javascript
let x = 5, y = "5";
console.log(x == y); // true
console.log(x === y); // false
```

### Logical Operators
- `&&` : and
- `||` : or
- `!` : not

```javascript
let x = 5, y = 3;
console.log(x > 3 && y < 5); // true
console.log(x > 3 || y > 5); // true
console.log(!(x > 3 && y < 5)); // false
```

### Bitwise Operators
- `&` : and
- `|` : or
- `~` /`!`: not
- `^` : xor
- `<<` : left shift
- `>>` : right shift
- `>>>` : zero fill right shift

```javascript
let x = 5, y = 3;
console.log(x & y);         // 1
console.log(x | y);         // 7
console.log(~x);            // -6
console.log(x ^ y);         // 6
console.log(x << 1);        // 10
console.log(x >> 1);        // 2
console.log(x >>> 1);       // 2
```

## Advanced Operators

### Destructuring Assignment
- `[]` : array destructuring
- `{}` : object destructuring

```javascript
let arr = [1, 2, 3];
let [a, b, c] = arr;
console.log(a); // 1

let obj = { x: 1, y: 2, z: 3 };
let { x, y, z } = obj;
console.log(y); // 2
```

### Conditional Operator (Ternary Operator)

- `condition ? exprIfTrue : exprIfFalse` - If the condition is true, the operator returns the value of `exprIfTrue`; otherwise, it returns the value of `exprIfFalse`.
- Ternary Operator operator can also be nested.

```javascript
let age = 16;
let isAllowed = (age >= 18) ? "Yes" : "No";
console.log(isAllowed); // No

const age = 18;
const status = age >= 18 ? "You are an adult" : age >= 16 ? "You are a teenager" : "You are a child";

console.log(status); // Output: "You are a teenager"

```

### Spread Operator

- `...` - Allows an iterable such as an array expression or string to be expanded in places where zero or more arguments (for function calls) or elements (for array literals) are expected.
- **Helps in deep copy of the referenced datatypes.**

```javascript
let arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
let arr2 = [4, 5, 6];
let arr3 = [...arr1, ...arr2];
console.log(arr3);             // [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]

let obj = { key1 : 1, key2 : 2 }
let obj2 = { ...obj, key3 : 3 }
console.log(obj2)              // { key1 : 1, key2 : 2, key3 : 3 }
```

### Nullish Coalescing Operator:

-   The Nullish Coalescing Operator is used to check if a value is null or undefined, and if it is, it returns a default value.
- `??` Evaluates to the left-hand side if it is not null or undefined, otherwise it evaluates to the right-hand side.
	```js
	let firstName = null;
	let lastName = "Doe";
	
	let name = firstName ?? "John" + " " + lastName;
	console.log(name); // Output: "John Doe"
	
	firstName = "Jane";
	name = firstName ?? "John" + " " + lastName;
	console.log(name); // Output: "Jane"
	```

### Optional Chaining Operator:

-  The Optional Chaining Operator is used to check if a property exists in an object before trying to access it. If the property is undefined or null, the operator will return undefined.
- `?.` Allows reading the value of a property located deep within a chain of connected objects without having to check that each reference in the chain is valid.
	```js
	let user = {
	  name: "John",
	  address: {
	    street: "123 Main St",
	    city: "New York",
	    zip: 10001
	  }
	};
	
	let zip = user.address?.zip;
	console.log(zip); // Output: 10001
	
	let phone = user.address?.phone;
	console.log(phone); // Output: undefined
	```

## Operator Precedence

- In JavaScript, operator precedence determines the order in which operators are evaluated when multiple operators are present in an expression. 

- Here are some key points to keep in mind:
	- Operators with higher precedence are evaluated first.
	- Parentheses can be used to group expressions and override operator precedence.
	- Operators with the same precedence are evaluated from left to right.

For example, consider the expression `2 + 3 * 4`. Since multiplication has a higher precedence than addition, the expression will be evaluated as `2 + (3 * 4)`, resulting in a value of 14.

- Operator precedence rules are well-defined, but they can also be complex. It's always a good practice to use parentheses to group expressions when in doubt.

**Here's a table of operator precedence in JavaScript, from highest to lowest:**
	1. Grouping: `( )`
	2. Member Access: `.` and `[]`
	3. Call/Function: `()`
	4. Postfix Increment/Decrement: `++` and `--`
	5. Logical Not: `!`
	6. Multiplication/Division/Remainder: `*`, `/`, and `%`
	7. Addition/Subtraction: `+` and `-`
	8. Bitwise Shift: `<<`, `>>`, and `>>>`
	9. Relational: `<`, `>`, `<=`, and `>=`
	10. Equality: `==`, `!=`, `===`, and `!==`
	11. Bitwise AND: `&`
	12. Bitwise XOR: `^`
	13. Bitwise OR: `|`
	14. Logical AND: `&&`
	15. Logical OR: `||`
	16. Conditional (Ternary): `? :`
	17. Assignment: `=`, `+=`, `-=` and so on.

MDN has a [comprehensive article](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Operator_precedence) on operator precedence in JavaScript, which covers everything in detail. 