When comparing values in JavaScript, there are two operators to use: `==` and `===`. Both operators check for equality, but they do it in slightly different ways. 

- [[#Double Equals (`==`)|Double Equals (`==`)]]
- [[#Triple Equals (`===`)|Triple Equals (`===`)]]
- [[#When to Use Which Operator|When to Use Which Operator]]
- [[#Tips|Tips]]
### Double Equals (`==`)

- The `==` operator is also known as the *loose equality* operator. 
- It compares two values after performing type coercion if needed. 

Here are some rules to keep in mind when using `==` :
	- If the two values being compared have the same type, then `==` behaves the same as `===`.
	- If one of the values is `null` and the other is `undefined`, then they are equal to each other and to no other value.
	- If one of the values is a number and the other is a string, JavaScript converts the string to a number before doing the comparison.
	- If one of the values is a boolean, JavaScript converts it to a number (0 for `false`, 1 for `true`) before doing the comparison.
	- If one of the values is an object and the other is a primitive value, JavaScript converts the object to a primitive value before doing the comparison.

Example:
```javascript
1 == '1' // true
true == 1 // true
null == undefined // true
'foo' == true // false
[] == false // true
```

### Triple Equals (`===`)

- The `===` operator is also known as the *strict equality* operator. 
- It compares two values without performing type coercion. The two values being compared must have the same type and value.

Example:
```javascript
1 === '1' // false
true === 1 // false
null === undefined // false
'foo' === true // false
[] === false // false
```

### When to Use Which Operator

- Use the `===` operator because it avoids type coercion and can prevent unexpected results in your code. 
- However, there may be situations where the `==` operator is more appropriate, such as when comparing values that can have different types, like numbers and strings.

> Use them appropriately in your code to avoid unexpected results and to write predictable code.

### Tips

- Always use `===` unless you have a good reason to use `==`.
- Be aware of the type coercion rules when using `==`.
- Consider using a linter like **ESlint** to help identify potential issues with equality comparisons in your code.