Variables are like named storage container used for storing information in different data types. Each variable in the file is associated to a specific physical memory location in the system running the js code.

- [[#Declaring a variable|Declaring a variable]]
- [[#Naming the variable|Naming the variable]]
- [[#Constant variables|Constant variables]]

### Declaring a variable

- Variables can be declared in the following manner - 
	```js
	// Variable is just declared, not initialized
	var variableDeclared;             
	
	// Variable is declared and intialized with a value
	var myVariable = "This is my first variable." 
	```
** the equal sign (`=`) is an **assignment operator**, not an equality operator.

- The declaration is when we declare that a variable will be used in our code but don't give it any value. The variables which contain a value is called a Initialized variable.
	
     > Uninitialized or unused initialized variable are discarded/purged when the production ready code is bundled using bundlers like webpack, percel, etc

- A variable declared without a value will have the value `undefined`. And in JS, `null` and `undefined` are two entirely different datatypes.
	```js
	let carName;
	console.log(carName);           // undefined
	```

- In JS, it is a good practice to declare all the variables in the beginning of the [[Scope in JS|scope]]

- In 2015, `let` and `const` keywords were added to JavaScript or ES15 as a new way of declaring variables. 
- Difference between the variable declared using `var`, `let` and `const` can be found [[02. Difference between var, let and const|here]].

	```js
	let userName;
	let sunOfNumbers = num1 + num2;
	const new_Price = 6;  
	```

- We can declare more than one variable in one single statement in JS.
	```js 
	// Single lined
	let userName = "Jane Doe", vehicleName = "Audi", price = 600;
	
	// Multi lined
	let user = 'John', 
		age = 25, 
		message = 'Hello';
	```

> It’s interesting to note that there exist so-called [pure functional](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purely_functional_programming) programming languages, such as [Haskell](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haskell), that forbid changing variable values. There are areas like parallel computations where this limitation has certain benefits.

- Only when we are not using [[Strict mode in JS|strict mode]], variables can be declared without using `var, let or const`. **This does not creates a variable in the local scope, but creates an attribute on the global object.**
	Eg. 
	```js
	num = 8;
	console.log(num)         // 5
	
	// ------------------------------------------------- //
	use strict;
	
	num = 8;
	console.log(num)         // This is give a reference error
	```

### Naming the variable

- All JavaScript variables must be declared with **unique names**. These unique names are called **identifiers**. JavaScript identifiers are case-sensitive. 
	Eg. `var myvar is not equal to var myVar`

- All the variable names can only contain letters, digits, underscores `__` , and dollar `$` symbols. We can also use non-latin variable name, but let's keep things simple. 
	Eg. 
	```js
	let значение = 123,554; 
	let 我的萌宝 = 'Apple';
	
	// I have no idea what that text means, i just wanted it to look scary
	```

- It can only begin with `_`, `$`, or a letter, nothing else!!
- **Camel-Casing** is mostly used in JS for declaring variable names. The first letter of each word is capitalized except for first word, and are combined together. 
	E.g `myFirstVariableName, camelCasingNameForVariable` 

- For larger codebase, Always maintain descriptive variable names to make code more informative, readable. 
	```js
	let priceArr = [10, 20, 30, 74];
	priceArr.forEach((price) => `Rs. ${price}`);
	
	// This is a js code snippet. It is more readable and informative than - 
	
	let x = [10, 20, 30, 74];
	x.forEach((y) => `Rs. ${y}`);
	```

- [Reserved Keywords](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords), i.e words reserved by Js and have special meaning to them,  cannot be used as variable names.

### Constant variables

- Sometime there is a need to declare a variable that have value constant throughout the application or program. In such cases, we use `const` instead of `var` or `let` to declare the variable.

- Variables declared with `const` **needs to be initailized with a value** as they cannot be reassigned a new value, oding such raises an error.
	eg. 
	```js
	const a = 89;
	a = 56             // TypeError: Assignment to constant variable.
	
	const a;           // SyntaxError: Missing initializer in const declaration
	```

- Sometimes constants are declared at the top of the file, like **Global Constants**, which are directly reused instead of actual values. 
	
	This has two advantages - 
		1. Code is more readable.
		2. If the value changes, it only needs to be changed at one place, i.e where it was already initialized.
	eg.
	```js
	const THEME_COLOR_RED = "#F00"; 
	const THEME_COLOR_GREEN = "#0F0"; 
	const THEME_COLOR_BLUE = "#00F"; 
	const THEME_COLOR_ORANGE = "#FF7F00";
	```

