JavaScript has several built-in data types, which can be classified as follows:

```toc
```

### 1. Primitive Data Types

- Primitive data types are values that are not objects and do not have any methods or properties.

#### a. String

A [[Strings in JS|string]] is a sequence of characters enclosed in single or double quotes. In JavaScript, strings are immutable, meaning once a string is created, it cannot be modified.

```javascript
let name = "John";
let greeting = 'Hello';
```

#### b. Number

[[Numbers in JS|Numbers]] are used to represent numerical values in JavaScript. They can be integer or floating-point values. JavaScript treats all numbers as floating point numbers.

Number also include some special numerical values such as `Infinity`, `-Infinity` and `NaN`.

```javascript
let age = 30;
let pi = 3.14;

alert( 1 / 0 , Infinity ); // Infinity - both are same thing

alert('test' / 4);     // `NaN` represents a computational error.


```

#### c. Boolean

A [[Boolean in JS|boolean]] is a logical value that can be either true or false.

```javascript
let isStudent = true;
let hasPassed = false;
```

#### d. Null

The value null represents the intentional absence of any object value, represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”..

```javascript
let score = null;
```

#### e. Undefined

The value undefined represents a variable that has been declared but has not been assigned a value.

```javascript
let address;
console.log(address); // Output: undefined
```

#### f. Symbol

A symbol is a unique and immutable data type introduced in ECMAScript 6.

```javascript
let id1 = Symbol('id');
let id2 = Symbol('id');
console.log(id1 === id2); // Output: false
```

#### g.  BigInt 

[[Numbers in JS#BigInt|BigInt]] is a new primitive data type in JavaScript that can be used to represent numbers larger than the maximum safe integer value. It is represented by appending `n` to the end of the number. 

In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot safely represent integer values larger than `(253-1)` (that’s `9007199254740991`), or less than `-(253-1)` for negatives. for more infor, read [here](https://javascript.info/bigint)

```js
let bigNumber = 123456789012345678901234567890n;
```

### 2. Reference Data Types

- Reference data types are values that are objects and store references to memory locations where the data is stored.
- Reference data types are passed by reference, meaning that the reference to the memory location is copied to a new variable when it is assigned or passed as an argument to a function. 
- Therefore, changing the value of one variable can affect the value of another variable that holds a reference to the same memory location.
- This can be explored more in teh concept of [[Shallow copy vs Deep Copy]]

#### a. Object

An [[Objects in JS|object]] is a collection of key-value pairs, where the key is a string and the value can be any data type.

```javascript
let person = {
  name: 'John',
  age: 30,
  isStudent: true
};
```

#### b. Array

An [[Arrays in JS|array]] is a collection of values, where each value can be of any data type. The values are stored in contiguous memory locations, and can be accessed using their index.

```javascript
let fruits = ['apple', 'banana', 'orange'];
console.log(fruits[1]); // Output: banana
```

#### c. Function

A [[Functions in JS|function]] is a block of code that can be called to perform a specific task. In JavaScript, functions are first-class objects, meaning they can be passed as arguments to other functions, returned from functions, and stored in variables.

```javascript
function add(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}
console.log(add(2, 3)); // Output: 5
```

### 3. typeOf operator

The `typeof` operator returns the type of the operand.

```js
typeof undefined      // "undefined" 
typeof 0              // "number" 
typeof 10n            // "bigint" 
typeof true           // "boolean" 
typeof "foo"          // "string" 
typeof Symbol("id")   // "symbol"

// `Math` is a built-in object that provides mathematical operations.
typeof Math           // object

// officially recognized error in `typeof`, coming from very early days of JavaScript and kept for compatibility
typeof null           // "object"

// there’s no special “function” type in JavaScript. Functions belong to the object type. But `typeof` treats them differently, returning "function"
typeof alert          // "function" (3)
```

> `typeof(x)`. It’s the same as `typeof x`.

> `typeof` is an operator, not a function. The parentheses here aren’t a part of `typeof`. It’s the kind of parentheses used for mathematical grouping.