 Function are a set of statements that can be 'called' or executed from anywhere in the file without repeating the statements.

```toc
```

### Function Declaration 
Function is declared in Javascript using `function` keyword. 

```javascript
function Function_Name (parameter1, parameter2, ... parameterN) { 
	// Function_Body 
}

function greetPerson(name) {
  console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
}

// Can be called multiple times, instead of repeating the statements
greetPerson("John");
greetPerson("Bruce");
greetPerson("Clark");
```

### Scope of a function

Scope of a function refers to the **accessibility and visibility of variables and functions** in different parts w.r.t the code and the function. Understanding scoping is important for understanding how variables and functions are accessed and how they interact with each other within the program.

1. **Global Scope:** Variables declared outside of any function are considered to be in the global scope. They are accessible from anywhere in your code, including within functions.

```javascript
let globalVariable = 10;

function myFunction() {
  console.log(globalVariable); // Accessible inside the function
}

myFunction(); // Outputs: 10
console.log(globalVariable); // Accessible outside the function
```

2. **Function Scope:** Variables declared inside a function are limited to that function's scope. They are not accessible outside of the function.

```javascript
function myFunction() {
  let functionVariable = 20;
  console.log(functionVariable); // Accessible inside the function
}

myFunction(); // Outputs: 20
console.log(functionVariable); // Error: functionVariable is not defined
```

> Variables declared with the `let` or `const` keywords have block scope, which means they are limited to the block in which they are defined (including within curly braces `{}`). This applies to both global and function scope.

> Nested functions have access to variables defined in their parent functions. This is called "lexical scoping" or "**[[Closure in JS|closure]]**."

3. **Lexical Scope:** Lexical scope, also known as **static scope**, is a concept where the availability of variables and functions is determined by their location within the source code. In other words, it's based on where variables and functions are defined in the code, not where they are called.

```javascript
function outerFunction() {
  let outerVariable = 'outer';

  function innerFunction() {
    let innerVariable = 'inner';
    console.log(outerVariable); // Accessible inside the inner function
  }

  innerFunction();
}

outerFunction(); // Outputs: outer
console.log(outerVariable); // Error: outerVariable is not defined
console.log(innerVariable); // Error: innerVariable is not defined
```

### Parameter vs Argument
In JavaScript, "parameters" and "arguments" are often used interchangeably, but they have distinct meanings.

1. Parameters are variables declared in the function's definition that act as placeholders to receive values when the function is called. 
2. They define what data the function expects to receive. 
3. Parameters are like variables that belong to the function and are scoped locally within the function.
	```javascript
	function greet(name) {
	  console.log(`Hello, ${name}!`);
	}
	// 'name' is a parameter of the 'greet' function.
	```

1. Arguments, on the other hand, are the actual values passed to the function when it is invoked. 
2. They are the concrete values that are substituted into the function's parameters.
	```javascript
	greet("John");
	// "John" is the argument that is passed to the `greet` function.
	```

> When calling a function, the number of arguments should match the number of parameters, or JavaScript will automatically assign `undefined` to any parameters without corresponding arguments.

### Default values for functions parameters 
#Imp

1. Default parameters were introduced in ES6 and provide a way to assign default values to function parameters if no argument is provided when calling the function. 
2. This helps in handling cases where the function might receive incomplete or missing data.

Read the following [[04. Default Values for functions|document]] to learn more.

### Arguments Object (just for reference)

1. The "arguments" object is a special object available within the scope of a JavaScript function that holds all the arguments passed to the function, regardless of the number of parameters defined. 
2. It allows you to access the arguments dynamically, even if you haven't explicitly declared parameters for them. 
3. It is similar to an array, but not exactly an array, as it lacks array methods.

	**Example - Summing of all the arguments**
	```javascript
	function sumAll() {
	  let total = 0;
	  for (let i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
	    total += arguments[i];
	  }
	  return total;
	}
	
	console.log(sumAll(1, 2, 3, 4, 5)); // Output: 15
	console.log(sumAll(10, 20, 30)); // Output: 60
	```
	
	**Example - Modifying Arguments (Using "arguments" in a non-strict mode function)**
	
	```javascript
	function changeFirstArgumentToZero() {
	  arguments[0] = 0;
	  return arguments[0];
	}
	console.log(changeFirstArgumentToZero(10)); // Output: 0
	```

> The `arguments` object is not an array, so it lacks array methods like `forEach` and `map`. If we want to use array methods on `arguments`, we need to convert it to a regular array first, using methods like `Array.from()` or the spread operator `...arguments`.

 ```javascript
	const displayArguments = function () {
	  const argsArray = Array.from(arguments);
	  console.log(argsArray.join(", "));
	};
	
	displayArguments(1, "hello", true);
	// Output: 1, hello, true
 ```

To use `arguments` in arrow functions, you would need to access it from an enclosing non-arrow function.

```javascript
	const displayArguments = () => {   
		console.log(arguments); // Will cause a ReferenceError 
	};  
	displayArguments(1, 2, 3);
```

**The "arguments" object has become less common, as rest parameters (`...args`) or default parameters can be used to capture multiple or optional arguments more conveniently.**




